Autonomous robots are involved in a wide range of activities in homes; offices; manufacturing industries etc. They are often used in areas hostile to humans such as outer space; deep oceans; nuclear power plants; sewage treatment plants; disaster struck areas etc. A robot's locomotion design refers to its ability to navigate the surroundings. Locomotion designs exist in a large variety; from wheels to belts and even limbs. Limbed robots have the ability to navigate areas which are deprived of smooth surfaces. Rough; rocky; steep and hostile terrains make their use inevitable owing to this unique locomotion design. However; these robots tend to fail miserably if they suffer some structural damage due to a mishap. Nature has found ways to adapt even in extreme cases of limb loss. Animals like cats; dogs miraculously adapt to a new walking mechanism; almost instantaneously after damage to their limb(s).
A hexapod robot is a mechanical robot that walks on six legs. Hexapod walking robots offer a good amount of static stability margin and locomotion speed, and at the same time, they are fault tolerant. Hexapods are superior to wheeled robots since wheeled robots need a continuous, even and most often a pre-constructed path. Hexapod robots, however, can traverse uneven ground, step over obstacles and choose footholds to maximize stability and traction.
The objective of this project was to build a hexapod robot that reaches out to terrains that are non- uniform detects bombs in order to evade threats, and also to detect fire.
